Add glossary for typically misused terms (#10)
dynatrace-oss-contrib/opentelemetry-specification: specification/glossary.md

# Glossary

Below are a list of some OpenTelemetry specific terms that are used across this
specification.

> ## (Telemetry) Library

Reviewer: I think it will be very easy to confuse "Telemetry Library" with "Instrumenting Library." Is there some way we can make this naming less ambiguous?

Author: I know these are ambiguous, hence the glossary ;-)
I'm happy about suggestions though.

Reviewer 2: Yep, that's the name currently used in the project.

> Denotes the actual *OpenTelemetry* library in use.  

Reviewer 2: Doesn't have to be OpenTelemetry actually, it could also be a compatible library producing data according to the OTel data format.

> Denotes the actual *OpenTelemetry* library in use.  

Reviewer 2: Is this meant to be the API or SDK?

Reviewer: It is my feeling that this is the SDK. The API should be the same for all vendors, but the SDK which is plugged will be different.

Reviewer 2: Could be a fork of the API as well, or a compatible alternative to the standard API.

Reviewer: If you fork the API, you will lose the main (planned) advantage of opentelemetry which is that modules will use the API to instrument themselves. Any module which uses the official version of the API will not report data to your forked version.

Author: Those questions regarding API vs SDK should be answered in the part of the specification I linked too.
@arminru already created an issue (https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/484) for clearing that up.

See [Library](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/data-resource-semantic-conventions.md#library)

<a name="instrumented_library"></a>

## Instrumented Library

> Denotes the library instrumented with OpenTelemetry API calls, thus the library

Reviewer: This definition sounds a lot like the definition for the "instrumenting library." I would rather see something along the lines of "Denotes the library which is being monitored/observed." In many cases, this library will not be the one with the API calls, because it is monkey patched.

Author: Agreed. Let me rephrase that.

Reviewer 2: "The library that is producing telemetry data" sounds to me almost certainly like the instrumenting library. The instrumented library is the one about which the data is produced imho.

that is producing telemetry data.

> Example: `org.mongodb`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Example: `org.mongodb.client`.
```
to make it a bit clearer

<a name="instrumenting_library"></a>

## Instrumenting Library

Denotes the library which provides the instrumentation *for* a given library (i.e.
the [Instrumented Library](#instrumented_library)). Hence, *Instrumented Library*

> and *Instrumenting Library* can be identical, but they don't necessarily have to.

Reviewer 2: ... can be identical if a library has OpenTelemetry instrumentation built-in / out-of-the-box

Example: `io.opentelemetry.contrib.mongodb`.

Synonyms: *Instrumentation Library*, *Integration*.

<a name="name"></a>

> ## Name (of a Tracer or Meter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tracer Name / Meter Name
```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tracer/Meter Name
```

> This refers to the `name` specified when creating a new `Tracer` or `Meter`

Reviewer: No mention of version?

(see [Obtaining a Tracer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-tracing.md#obtaining-a-tracer)/[Obtaining a Meter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-metrics-user.md#obtaining-a-meter)). It is identical to
[Instrumenting Library](#instrumenting_library).

## Namespace

This term applies to [Metric names](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-metrics-user.md#metric-names) only and is used to disambiguate identical metric

> names used in different libraries. The [Name](#name) provided for creating a `Meter`

Reviewer 3: Since we have 3 different "library types", I would add the "instrumented" word.

Reviewer 2: nooo, "instrumenting"!!! 🙈

Reviewer 3: :man_facepalming:

Reviewer 2: no worries, that's why we'll get a glossary now 😉

Reviewer 3: At least it makes my comment more valid than before :sweat_smile:

> names used in different libraries. The [Name](#name) provided for creating a `Meter`

Reviewer: If you add a mention of version to the Meter Name section above, it will probably be helpful to mention that the namespace is only the `name` part of the name-version pair.

> also serves as its namespace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
serves as its namespace.
```
otherwise it could be interpreted as if there was another, alternative namespace

Author: "Also" refers to the semantics of `name` described in the context before. I'll try to make that clearer.

# Glossary

Below are a list of some OpenTelemetry specific terms that are used across this
specification.

> ## (Telemetry) Library

Author: It does not say **Telemetry** Library in the referenced part of the spec, so I deliberately put the parentheses there.

Denotes the actual *OpenTelemetry* (or API compatible) library in use.  
See [Library](data-resource-semantic-conventions.md#library)

<a name="instrumented_library"></a>

## Instrumented Library

Denotes the library whose "actions" (e.g. called methods/functions, operations, ...)

> result in OpenTelemetry signals (traces, metrics, logs).  

Reviewer 4: This is confusing to me. The only function call that results in a trace for example is `StartSpan` and the library that calls StartSpan is the instrument**ing** library. I see the next sentence clarifies that, but still.

Suggestion: "The library of interest that signals are emitted for (traces, metrics, logs). The library that is monitored."

The actual OpenTelemetry API calls can happen inside this library but might as well
happen in a different one (the [Instrumenting Library](#instrumenting_library)).

Example: `org.mongodb.client`.

<a name="instrumenting_library"></a>

## Instrumenting Library

> Denotes the library which provides the instrumentation *for* a given library (i.e.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The library which provides the instrumentation for a given library (i.e.
```

Author: Honestly, I like my wording better and also the emphasis on *for*.

> the [Instrumented Library](#instrumented_library)). Hence, *Instrumented Library*

Reviewer 4: I would leave out the part in parantheses, it is not 100% clear that it applies to the "given library" and not the "library which provides".

Author: Using *for* again should clear that up.

and *Instrumenting Library* can be identical if a library has built-in OpenTelemetry
instrumentation, but they don't necessarily have to.

Example: `io.opentelemetry.contrib.mongodb`.

Synonyms: *Instrumentation Library*, *Integration*.

<a name="name"></a>

## Tracer Name / Meter Name

> This refers to the `name` and (optional) `version` arguments specified when

Reviewer 4: Does it really refer to the version too? I think we have to concede that when someone is using "tracer/meter name" it is unclear whether the version is included.

Author: Leaving that in, since it was demanded by previous reviewers and upvoted (liked).

> creating a new `Tracer` or `Meter` (see [Obtaining a Tracer](api-tracing.md#obtaining-a-tracer)/[Obtaining a Meter](api-metrics-user.md#obtaining-a-meter)). It is identical to [Instrumenting Library](#instrumenting_library).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
creating a new `Tracer` or `Meter` (see [Obtaining a Tracer](api-tracing.md#obtaining-a-tracer)/[Obtaining a Meter](api-metrics-user.md#obtaining-a-meter)). It identifies the [Instrumenting Library](#instrumenting_library).
```

## Namespace

> This term applies to [Metric names](api-metrics-user.md#metric-names) only and is used to disambiguate identical metric

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This term applies to [Metric names](api-metrics-user.md#metric-names) only. The namespace is used to disambiguate identical metric
```

> names used in different instrumenting libraries. The [Name](#name) provided

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
names used in different [instrumenting libraries](#instrumenting_library). The [Name](#name) provided
```

for creating a `Meter` serves as its namespace in addition to the primary semantics
described [here](#name).

> The `version` argument is not relevant here and will not be included in

Reviewer 4: I think this is already too much detail for a glossary.

Author: Leaving that in, since it was demanded by previous reviewers and upvoted (liked).

## Tracer Name / Meter Name

This refers to the `name` and (optional) `version` arguments specified when

> creating a new `Tracer` or `Meter` (see [Obtaining a Tracer](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-tracing.md#obtaining-a-tracer)/[Obtaining a Meter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-metrics-user.md#obtaining-a-meter)). It is identical to [Instrumenting Library](#instrumenting_library).

Reviewer 2: Please use relative links (they are slightly less likely to break).

## Namespace

This term applies to [Metric names](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/master/specification/api-metrics-user.md#metric-names) only and is used to disambiguate identical metric
names used in different instrumenting libraries. The [Name](#name) provided
for creating a `Meter` serves as its namespace in addition to the primary semantics

> describe [here](#name).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
described [here](#name).
```
